# PyBer_Analysis : Ride Sharing Data Analysis by City Type

#Purpose:
    #The Purpose of this analysis is to show ride-sharing data by city type. By contrasting the empirical data, statistical averages
    #and data over time, company leaders will drill down into the business operations and performance.  Visuals may help 
    #guide decision making or produce questions for further research.




#Overview of the analysis:

    #Data was combined into a table found here:"C:\Users\aimee\Desktop\05-Matplotlib\05-Homework\Resources\Summary_DataFrame2.png"
    #The combined data shows that the majority of rides are occurring in urban cities, trailed by Suburban, with the fewest in rural cities. 
    #The number of drivers and the total fares for each city type ar also greatest for urban cities, then suburban, and least in rural cities.
    #The averages show a different relationship to the cities.  Average fare per ride is actually highest in rural areas, then lower in suburban, and lowest in urban         #cities. Average fare per driver similarly is highest in rural areas, then lower in suburban areas, and lowest in urban areas. 
    #A figure of the total fare by city type over four months is found here:"C:\Users\aimee\Desktop\05-Matplotlib\05-Homework\Resources\total_fare_by_city_type.png"
    #The figure shows a slight upward trend in late February, and the proportion in number of rides of each city type, urban in green, suburban in orange, and rural in       #blue.  These comparisons are two dimensional and warrant additional analysis with optimization and consideration of costs associated with each city type.

#Conclusions and Recommendations :
    #The greatest total dollars are currently generated by the urban cities business sector.  Considering the that these are shorter trips, it is reasonable to continue       
    #to operate in urban cities and further analyze equipment and labor costs to see a clearer picture of optimization.  Other opportunities might exist in expanding    
    #to new urban cities, which would ensure growth.  
    #The average dollars per ride, though highest for rural cities, would perhaps better represented in proportion to trip distance.  Additional layers of analysis 
    #would yield a clearer picture of the dollars per mile travelled for each city type.  Additionally, the fare per driver should be considered with respect to other 
    #variables such as average miles per trip and trips per day.  Once costs are considered, we recommend that optimization models are run to show the ideal proportions 
    #of rural, suburban, and urban trips.
  
